# Network Data- Part 1

## Sockets in Python

Python has built-in support for TCP Sockets

### code
    import socket
    mysock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    mysock.connect( ('data.pr4e.org', 80) )  #Port is 80 and data.pr4e.org is Host ...this is like dialing the phone
    
## Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)

Since TCP (and Python) gives us a reliable socket, what do we want to do with the socket? What problem do
we want to solve?

1. The dominant Application Layer Protocol on the Internet is HTTP.

2. (Protocols are important standards. For example, in Western cultures the person who answers the phone says "Hello" first.

3. HTTP was invented as a set of rules to retrieve documents from the Web - to Retrieve HTML, Images, Documents, etc.

4. Extended to be data in addition to documents - RSS, Web Services,etc.. Basic Concepts - Make a Connection - Request a document - Retrieve the Document - Close the Connection
 
**Application Protocols**
1. Mail
2. World Wide Web

Protocol Example:
http://   www.dr-chuck.com    /page1.htm
protocal      host             document

### full code
 
    import socket

    mysock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    mysock.connect(('data.pr4e.org', 80))
    cmd = 'GET http://data.pr4e.org/romeo.txt HTTP/1.0\r\n\r\n'.encode()
    mysock.send(cmd)

    while True:
        data = mysock.recv(512)
        if len(data) < 1:
            break
        print(data.decode(),end='')

    mysock.close()
    
## QuizUsing the Developer Console to Explore HTTP

1.Question 1
What do we call it when a browser uses the HTTP protocol to load a file or page from a server and display it in the browser?
Answer: The Request/Response Cycle

2.What separates the HTTP headers from the body of the HTTP document?
Answer: A blank line

3. What are the three parts of this URL (Uniform Resource Locator)?
http://www.dr-chuck.com/page1.htm
Answer: Protocol, host, and document

4.When you click on an anchor tag in a web page like below, what HTTP request is sent to the server?
Answer: GET

5.What is an important aspect of an Application Layer protocol like HTTP?
Answer: Which application talks first? The client or server?

6.What does the "H" of HTTP stand for?
Answer: Hypertext

7.Which of the following is most like an open socket in an application?
Answer: An "in-progress" phone conversation

8.Which of the following TCP sockets is most commonly used for the web protocol (HTTP)?
Answer: 80

## Assignment: Understanding the Request / Response Cycle

In this assignment you write a Python program to retrieve a web page over a socket and display the headers from the web server.

#### Exploring the HyperText Transport Protocol

You are to retrieve the following document using the HTTP protocol in a way that you can examine the HTTP Response headers.

There are three ways that you might retrieve this web page and look at the response headers:

1. Preferred: Modify the socket1.py program to retrieve the above URL and print out the headers and data. Make sure to change the code to retrieve the above URL - the values are different for each URL.
2. Open the URL in a web browser with a developer console or FireBug and manually examine the headers that are returned.
3. Use the telnet program as shown in lecture to retrieve the headers and content.
